hey guys I'm vegan I engage in a lot of
criticism of what's going on in veganism
as a movement not because I want
veganism to fail but because I want to
succeed I don't think that film critics
criticize films because they want the
film industry to collapse or fail they
want to see the progress of the art form
they in general want the industry to
succeed to do better to make more
meaningful films maybe to make more
successful films they want to see
people's creative visions realized I
don't know whatever mix of motives they
bring to film criticism but political
criticism is indeed a very different
thing but as of right now 2018 I have
made 17 videos criticizing direct action
everywhere and I have never once dealt
with the very open sex scandals going on
within that organization today's the day
a steak we finally addressed that you're
on this channel I've never once dealt
with the looming odious cloud of
controversy that surrounds the fact that
many people within the organization
signed non-disclosure agreements some of
them maybe felt they were forced to sign
non-disclosure agreements or they signed
them and read them but any case direct
action everywhere is led it's founded
and led by corporate lawyer
Wayne's young and he has a habit of
asking people to sign non-disclosure
agreement which is one of the reasons
why it's so hard to get someone on
camera to talk about what's going on
inside the organization what's right
with it what's wrong with it what the
road of the future is but look guys I
just reiterate right off the bat I'm
engaged in this criticism because I want
to learn from the successes and failures
of various things going on within the
vegan movement now in some ways direct
action everywhere is a success story
they claim currently to have 100,000
members I would say the word member
might not be so appropriate maybe they
have 100 thousand people who are signed
up for their email list who are
supporters in the sense of following
them on social media and what they want
to do when I look at their YouTube
channel
I don't see signs of a hundred thousand
people who are even interested in seeing
one video a month out of them not even
when their videos are indeed you know
right on their core message I mean these
videos are just telling people stuff
they already want to hear you know they
rescued a cute baby goat they're
protesting against people wearing fur
they're against
Trader Joe's eggs I mean you know this
stuff is all preaching to the converted
I don't do that kind of stuff on my
channel people come to my channel and
they watch videos that tell them you
know horrifying unfamiliar provocative
things they don't want to hear um you
know I remember getting hate mail
because of what I'd say about video
games I told people that playing video
games was not a good use of their time
people were shocked and horrified and
people unfollowed me and said they
didn't want to ever watch my videos
again because of my political position
on video games certainly in a major way
I had people respond very negatively to
what I said about marijuana marijuana
causes brain damage
and there is scientific evidence to
prove this fact I would encourage you to
not use marijuana even this is
controversial but sure within the vegan
movement I've criticized a long list of
to my mind important political issues
I've crossed swords with other aspiring
vegan activists and leaders in the
movement of disagreement things and yet
I seem to pull in you know I don't know
interested core of at least 500 viewers
and what I see with direct action
everywhere is that even the core of
people who still supports them they
don't really want to hear what the right
action everywhere has to say anymore so
you know they maybe have a hundred
thousand supporters in some sense they
have a certain level of donations and
budget I mean that's part of the
controversy today it's a proven fact
they're getting a certain amount of
money donated to them every year so that
the capacity to make some difference in
the world they're the capacity organize
certain types of events but let's face
it this movement kicked off with the
slogan it's not food it's violence and
with tactics that are based around
disruption too
as they defined it and it gets old it
gets old quick it gets repetitive and
for many of the people engaged in the
tactics I know it gets exhausting and
and heartbreaking I had a conversation
the realist conversation I ever had with
Hania Kenya's YouTube channels called
Hana mania a lot of you will know her
she became like a lifestyle blogger
within veganism but back in the day she
used to do real street protests and she
said you know after you've done it a
hundred times remember talking to me
about just her sense of being morally
and emotionally exhausted and feeling
that it doesn't make any difference in
the world
but if I interestingly that's really
what DXE was was founded on on they
started with the premise that giving out
cookies to people in the streets was not
effective handing out pamphlets on
campuses was not effective and they were
gonna learn the lessons of the social
sciences and take on radically new and
more effective methods such as running
into a Chipotle restaurant and screaming
it's not food it's violence such as
breaking down weeping in a butcher shop
and demanding that the butcher kills you
instead of killing the pig such as
running onto a baseball diamond to
interrupt a baseball game because people
are eating hot dogs at a baseball game
or maybe because they use leather mitts
I mean I don't know base baseball is a
bit of a soft target for veganism we
think about it such as trying to
interrupt Bernie Sanders such as trying
to interrupt on and on and you know that
this this is their their style of
disruption now interestingly this is a
one of the things that brings us to
today's topic
Wayne's Young was himself disrupted when
he was giving a talk recently and he
posted the videotape of this to his own
Facebook page so two very controversial
hour long videos both approximately an
hour long went up on the direct action
everywhere Facebook pages lately to my
knowledge they are not on YouTube
anywhere and I do suppose they choose to
do that so that they'll have fewer
response videos fewer people editing
clips of the video and reacting to it
now to my knowledge the first of these
two videos that went up this is not the
one where Wayne is interrupted and
corrupted they decided to do a semi
spontaneous sort of Q&A session talking
to the crowd that opens with opens with
the statement that direct action
everywhere is not a cult so within the
first two minutes I think it's a minute
and thirty seconds in a minute 45 in I
did actually take notes I did listen to
all these videos in their entirety while
studying Chinese if you guys wonder how
can I possibly make the time to listen
to hours and hours of this stuff from
drugs and everywhere learning Chinese
that's a time-consuming hobby and you
can listen to a lot of podcasts while
you're doing it the sort of thing
anyways right off the bat they they
kicked off this video by saying that
they were going to address concerns that
they were a cult and actually in large
part the way they address that was in
describing how their own leadership
selection process took place how they
make decisions about what they're gonna
do in terms of public protests and try
to kind of reassure people that the
social gatherings they have are alcohol
free
they said several times there's a
grandmotherly atmosphere it's not a lot
of people trying to get laid they kind
of joked around a lot about the extent
to which Wayne's leadership is not at
all cult-like or not to cult-like so
they they tried to be reassuring but I
think they were not at all addressing
people's real concerns that were not
addressing the reasons why people accuse
them of being cult-like now about forty
minutes into the video we had the
hilarious statement from one of the
chief organizers sitting next to Wayne
so young said that quote look I'm sorry
sorry this is a quote but I'm slightly
paraphrasing because she interrupts
herself she doesn't quite speak in a in
a purple sense here but paraphrasing
ever so slightly she said quote it's not
like we voted ourselves into office ie
they really were elected it's not like
only five people voted or something I
don't know forty to sixty people I don't
know off the top of my 40 to 60 people
photos
so the exact quote and the timestamp I
posted on Twitter I posted to at least a
group somewhere on Facebook and I posted
for my patreon subscribers and then
patreon um this is an organization with
allegedly over a hundred thousand
followers they're defending the
legitimacy of their leadership and of
course that they're not a cult by saying
that maybe 40 people maybe up to 60 but
40 people I mean in a room voted for
who's in charge leadership now this
doesn't contradict the other accounts
have been given about what's what's gone
wrong with the leadership process of the
democratic process that traditionally it
confirms it
you know the complaints were that
basically in response to rising
criticism of Wayne's leadership he
stage-managed a very small meeting with
a very small number of people who were
hand selected where everyone kind of
knew who they were in a support which
side they were on
and at this meeting so Wayne's
leadership was confirmed and in general
the the direction and character of the
organization was confirmed
now also legally and financially direct
action everywhere exists as to bank
accounts one of which is called DXE
global which is sometimes also referred
to as DXE international and that account
is controlled by Wayne and there is one
other account which is based in Santa
Cruz California which is called Friends
of DXE and that is legally controlled by
Wayne's sister so among the complaints
kind of like well you can have all the
democracy you want but Wayne is the
self-appointed dictator for life this is
the complaint there are there is no
possibility of actually changing the
leadership at the top and there's
definitely no possibility of financial
transparency and accountability now
sorry I've made I'm saying this as
shorthand if you think this is an
unreasonable criticism you can refer to
my earlier videos they talk about what
the issues are and Wayne did address
here not for the first time I think
complaints that if you donate to direct
action never workers they've had calls
for donations that for example show you
a picture of a pig that's been rescued
and say donate
to support this pig being a shelter and
it does indeed seem no matter how you do
the math less than 15 percent of your
money could possibly go to supporting
these animals and shelters I'm based on
what I've read and based even on what
I've heard when say I believe it can be
quite a bit less something like not just
slightly less than 15% but really
significantly less a very very small
percentage of the money you're donating
is going to help animals and shelters
now is that a problem well it depends it
depends on transparency and
accountability and messaging if you're
calling for donations if you're making
these these appeals to people on the
basis of showing them pictures of pigs
in a shed rescued pigs and saying this
is gonna go to support animals and
shelters that's a very different thing
from saying hey donate so that our
members can live in group housing in
Berkeley California not a cult hashtag
not a cult um so that we can pay them
honorariums not not employees with the
contract not that they have social
security and a salary not that they have
to live up to a professional code of
conduct or that they go through a
vetting process or hiring process now
that there's any professions no no no
they're just being paid in fellowships
and honorariums so that they can live as
professional dissidents in this movement
in Berkeley California if you're
supporting the lifestyle of these
activists if that's what you know you're
doing you know that's you're paying for
if you're paying for them to hang out at
this funny little vegan corner shop that
they operate out of the same budget they
call it of course an activist Center but
I've I've now seen a little bit of
videotape and photographs of what that
place looks like they're Berkeley Center
for animal activism you know it looks
like a vegan a little miniature vegan
grocery store a little vegan corner
store if that's what you're paying to
support you know that then you know
there's no reason why you'd be
scandalized by this being less than 15%
of the budget but anyway already here a
scattershot you get the point that they
uploaded a video over an hour long which
was indeed trying to reassure people in
their own words that they're not a cult
that was first and foremost secondly to
reassure people about misgivings that
they're not
sufficiently democratic or transparent
including the issue of elections and
thirdly that financially there on the
level that there hasn't been something
misleading or inappropriate about what's
been happening to the money in
particular the question of what
percentage of the money has been going
to actually support rescued animals or
the rescue of animals or animals living
in shelters so the second video to my
knowledge the second video that was
uploaded in corn chronological order the
second video that happened a wean is
giving a presentation on a sort of
standard grist for the mill topic for
vegans which is completely
uncontroversial and he is himself
disrupted someone stands up from the
audience and disrupts his lecture and
starts demanding justice this is seven
minutes into the video by the way I
heard this link with some people and
they're like what why should i watch
this this is just another boring lecture
about veganism it's the same thing for
$10 I said no no no no
fast-forward to seven minutes annual
you'll see why I shared you this that's
like someone stands up and demands two
demands accountability from Wayne about
a controversy that I've indeed heard
about for quite a long time from many
different angles involving the sex lives
of people within direct action
everywhere allegations of rape a
reconciliation process that concluded
with people signing non-disclosure
agreements and then what's currently
some kind of ongoing lawsuits some kind
of ongoing legal action that arose out
of allegations of rape so both videos
dealt with this actually the first video
in which they're establishing that
they're not a cult we're told at quite
some length that Wayne regrets that in
the past these Truth and Reconciliation
processes had been in the hands of
amateurs and that in the future what
they're going to do is hand over any
complaints about sexual misconduct to a
professional someone who's a
professional in the field of handling
these types of complaints and they will
just send out an alert through their
network that someone is a sexual
predator or is guilty of some kind of
offence now already there when he said
that
I thought no have you thought through
that this could lead to lawsuits and if
you just send out an email to your
100,000 followers you're one of
thousands subscribers saying that
somebody saying for example that
somebody is a rapist that can lead to a
very serious lawsuit because I could
have devastating consequences on their
lives professionally personally and
otherwise and under American law you are
impugning their chastity which lowers or
basically eliminates the burden of proof
unlike other forms of defamation in
America when they're of a sexual nature
that kind it's quite easy to to prove
defamation and anyway as some of you
fold this channel for some time I know I
had a dispute with another leader in the
vegan movement he didn't have a leg to
stand on and criticizing me so he
alleged he just made up a story that I
was having an affair with a 16 year old
and the 16 year old female by the way
she and I had never met we'd never
spoken you know so it was a ridiculous
she she never claimed anything the sort
she openly on her own blog of the time
was like no she never met me this was a
complete nonsense so there was
absolutely no there was nothing about
this to make this credible but
nevertheless it was a very nasty
conflict and that also ended up in court
could have ended up in the boxing ring
but for some reason even though that guy
threatened to beat me up and indeed
threatened to have me stabbed or kill me
there were a lot of threats from his end
but when I offered to meet him he was a
no-show
alright that's another story but my
point is a mentioning here sadly these
kinds of allegations of sexual
misconduct they are used to discredit
political figures we just had that
happen in the province of Ontario in
Canada so in Ontario Canada the
Conservative Party leader there were
some allegations made that fell apart
on just cursory inspection and
fact-checking that were used to try to
destroy his political career patty brown
patty brown whom I in fact went to
primary school with so the lead her or
the would-be leader of the Conservative
Party in Ontario just had that I knew
him as a child and you know allegations
were contrived against him to destroy
him politically I think to destroy him
personally to some extent to so this is
a real problem in politic
and vegan politics are real politics so
in any case Wayne was dramatically
disrupted by this young woman who stands
up and if you go to see the video
I mean I'll provide a timestamps below
for some of the bizarre user in the
description below this video there will
be links with timestamps to some of
these more explosive and bizarre
statements one of the strangest things
again in contrast to this claim that
hashtag we are not a cult
Wayne repeatedly says I love you I care
about you he repeatedly says that he's
given this woman money that he'd like to
give her more money that he's helping to
pay for her go to her to go to graduate
school that he cares about her I think
maybe twice he brings up the fact that
he's a Buddhist that he was raised
Buddhist and he believes in various
Buddhist virtues you could have fooled
me Wayne I don't know I think you were
raised as a corporate lawyer
those are unhappy these people I'm not
the statements I don't know I don't know
which one is more your religion today
Wayne you never I'm a former scholar
tear about of Buddhism I actually
learned to read Pali I read the Canon
and I've meditated with Buddhist monks
from Sri Lanka to New York State
Cambodia to Thailand well you know um
oh but you could have fooled me Wayne I
don't I don't see a whole lot of
Buddhist influence in your act at any
level or at any stage your career Wayne
but anyway he invokes his religious
background as a Buddhist he makes these
statements that he cares about her and
that at one point he so he says
repeatedly that he's broke that he has
no money and she several times rebuts
him by saying that's just not true
I also would tend to assume that's not
true and these are um stanzas and he
says no no it is true that he's broke he
has no money but he says that if he had
money he would give more money to her he
said if he had a I think he says if he
had a billion dollars he would give her
a million dollars at one point that's
again these are pretty close paraphrases
of what was said and you can you can
hear it yourself so there were repeated
assurances that Wayne cares about her
and cares about her perspective and
cares about her
her opinion that he wants to support her
and even that he loves her and so on but
and there seems to be a but what she's
demanding is that the lawsuit against
her be dropped and of course Wayne has
to say that's not in his power he's not
the one
pressing the lawsuit and what she
insists on is that Wayne himself advised
or counseled or encouraged the man who
was pressing the lawsuit to do so now I
have heard things from other people who
are not even six degrees of separation
removed from the scandal I've heard
things people who are one degree of
several people who were connected to the
people involved the world is not that
broad and the Internet makes it narrower
and gossip you know travels more quickly
I've managed to get through 17 very
substantive videos criticizing what's
wrong with the right action everywhere
without even once
commenting on the sex scandal side of
their story and this is really linked
the sex scandal the issue of these legal
costs because you know this young woman
was also talking about the cost of the
lawyers Wayne was talking about the cost
of lawyers but also the cost of her
going to grad school and the allegations
of direct action ever being a cult I've
formally studied cults I have some
articles on the internet talking about
that the extent to which Buddhism itself
can become cult-like or an outright cult
the extent to which political ideologies
like communism can become cult right the
cult like pardon me lapsing into into
Chinese here I do not think by a formal
strict definition of cult I do not think
anyone really can call the right action
everywhere are called however on the
other hand people refer to being a fan
of Star Trek as a cult so there is a
broader more informal use of the word
cult that's in currency and I can't
pretend people don't use the English
language that way
however strictly speaking no I would not
describe to our data force a call
however what's very clear from both
these videos is that people do regard
Wayne's Young as responsible for the
Aurel minutiae of the lives of his
followers they regard him as if it is in
his power and it is his responsibility
to censor expurgate and manage what's on
everybody's Facebook wall what's in
everybody's hearts of hearts what was
what are their beliefs how politically
correct they are how racist they are etc
down to a very fine precise level of
scrutiny and in effect that he's put in
the position of managing their sex lives
um some of the examples I've read about
when people date people break up they
have acrimonious breakups people of
course people sleep with other people
within the movement a lot of people have
heard hennya herself admit this on
camera hang pardon me kenya mania Enya
mania has admitted on camera that she
she used to go to protests to meet guys
to get laid a lot of people love it
that's you that one of their reasons for
going to vegan events whether it's a
food based event like veg fest
or it's you know an explicitly political
event that one of the reasons for going
these things is indeed to meet members
the opposite sex or members of the same
sex depending on what they're into so
yeah people fall into love people fall
out of love
there are acrimonious breakups and
sometimes along with that there are
allegations and counter allegations some
of them are true and some of them are
are false but tell me something guys why
would you want your boss at work to be
involved if you go through that most
most people watching this video have
been through a bad bad breakup did you
go to your boss at work and get him
involved is the status of wayne's young
in this movement that of being a boss at
work or is he indeed more like a a
priest is he more like the the leader of
this flock is he the pastor looking over
his flock of sheep what really is going
on here um naturally my videos tend to
criticize leadership
because it's the leaders who make the
decisions but ultimately the problem
here is followership anyone who's been
seriously engaged in critique of what's
right and what's wrong with direct
action everywhere has to come to the
conclusion that a large part of what's
wrong with it is that these guys put up
a flag and that flag attracts a certain
kind of person and you see I mean when
you're recruiting for this kind of
movement what kind of person you want to
show up what kind of person do you want
to participate well they've got exactly
what they asked for
they asked for a certain type of
personality that wants to disrupt
baseball games and weep and cry and
restaurants that wants to pitch a fit
and kick down doors and Wayne has now
repeatedly said that he's facing ten
years in prison and I it's hard to say
if he's boasting or complaining but he's
repeatedly said in these same lengths
you'll see hello that he may do ten
years in jail for his proper type of
activism so you're asking people to sign
up to do things that are illegal that
can get them in legal trouble that can
put them in prison you're promising them
a certain alluring combination of danger
and save-the-world
rhetoric you know one of the distinctive
things about direct action everywhere is
that they claim there will be no
compromise in reality they have
compromised the protest in front of a
butcher and then the butcher says look
what can I do to end these protests they
say okay put up a tiny little placard a
tiny little placard like this put it up
on the wall saying that eating meat is
immoral basically that it's not food
it's violence and then we'll stop the
protest that sounds like compromise to
me waitin that sounds like your logo is
being used to endorse a butcher shop to
give it a stamp of ethical approval to a
butcher shop or at least a
get-out-of-jail-free card to a butcher
shop where you said you'd never
compromise you said it was about you
wouldn't you wouldn't compromise until
all the animals are free till every cage
is smashed till they're all liberated
but anyway the uncompromising slightly
menacing slightly violent utterly
illegal you know I mean
overly emotive methods that are used to
you
they're an embarrassment to veganism
I've already had videos criticizing that
but also you know they create a
crossroads that attracts certain types
of people and then Wayne has put himself
in the position of first and foremost
trying to exploit those people for
fundraising that's what it all comes
down to you know how are you gonna
monetize the antics of these freaks how
are you gonna put on a freak show that's
gonna get donor don't do it or money
rolling it that's that's the challenge
he's got and you see how it plays out
again in these same videos you see them
talking about how they brainstormed oh
should we have this protester lie down
in a pile of poo and a pile of feces a
pile of you know animal Iseman yeah it's
that kind of work or not and then
they're so happy that they got on the TV
news or got into some newspapers with
this snot you know I'm sorry but in any
other industry this would be called
famewhoring this is an effective
activism this isn't basing your
judgments and your strategies and
tactics on the lessons of the social
sciences this is anything of the kind
what you're doing is is famewhoring what
you're doing is trying to get on camera
get on YouTube and get into the
newspapers the antics of these people
you've recruited and attracted again
with these peculiar promises with this
uncompromising you don't quote unquote
direct action for a methodology that's
built on disruption and overly emotive
outburst and then once you've got those
people there and they're breaking into
factory farms and they're kicking in the
doors of restaurants and weeping at
first shop sand Chipotle and you know
once you've got these people and that's
the that's the cycle of you know public
protests they've they've engaged in how
are you gonna manage them what wayne has
shown us again from many different
angles in these videos it's very very
hard for him to manage and in many ways
what they've done is they've had to
retrench themselves that used to be a
decentralized that can still look this
up the archived web pages where they
used to promise this
they used to promise that they would be
a fully decentralized fully horizontal
grassroots activist network where nobody
was in charge leaderless resistance was
their model and they've switched to
being ultra hierarchical ultra top-down
they claim they have elections maybe 40
to 60 people vote in those elections it
is very clear that Wayne's Young is the
one man at the top of the tower trying
to manage everything his his followers
do their private political believes
their private sex lives when they get
into fights with one another he's trying
to provide them with housing in Berkeley
California the complains is very
expensive he's trying to Shepherd them
along towards this revolution and trying
to raise enough money to keep paying
wages to the the staff to the coterie of
his closest followers who stay with him
there in Berkeley what can we learn from
direct action everywhere what can we
learn from their successes what can we
learn from their failures we live in an
era when politics is dominated we live
in an era when politics is dominated by
figures preaching compromise it can be
very appealing it can build up a lot of
interest when you preach a creed that
rejects all compromise you could preach
it and then we all get to see whether or
not you can practice what you preach
Wayne's young as he boasts himself is
now facing 10 years in jail
I don't think he even claims he's not
guilty I don't think he can claim he's
innocent I think he can just claim that
he wants to commit these crimes film
them put the evidence of him committing
the crime on the internet have people
watch that film and donate money to
support him committing more crimes I
think that's his moral position I don't
think DXE is gonna collapse I don't
think it's gonna disappear People for
the Ethical People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals Petta
they've been through a long series of
scandals they've made reforms they've
made adjustments but one thing with
petaa that didn't change is that the
same one person the same self-appointed
dictator for life remained at the helm
remain in control at the top of that
organization I've used this quote many
times but the former director of the FBI
said an organization is the shadow of
just one man one man or one woman as the
case may be pet his case it's it's
Ingrid Newkirk there are many lessons we
can learn from veganism as it's gotten
this point but I think one of them is
obviously the type of tyranny that's
inevitable when this type of movement is
controlled by just one woman or just one
man even if they have the best of
intentions that when you scale it up to
a hundred thousand people in chapters in
chicago california and allegedly around
the world there has got to be a better
way Wayne's young if you really cared
about the future of this movement I
think you would have stepped down back
when your followers were asking you to
it's not that long ago back when you had
the mutiny against your leadership back
when it was so clear across the board
that the very people you'd recruited to
demand change we're looking to you and
asking for change within
organization itself